so as I mentioned the end of the
previous video we can also synchronize
static methods and use static objects
and when we do that the lock that used
is owned by the class object associated
with the objects class now
synchronization is reentrant what that
means is that if a thread acquires an
objects lock and within the synchronized
code
it calls a method that's using the same
object to synchronize some code
the thread can keep executing because it
already has the objects lock
in other words the thread can acquire
a lock it already owns now if this wasn't
the case
synchronization would be a lot trickier
now will sometimes see the term critical
section used when discussing threads and
synchronization critical section just
refers to the code that's referencing a
shared resource like a variable only one
thread at a time should be able to
execute a critical section now will also
see the term thread-safe used when a
class or a method is thread-safe what
that means is that the developer has
synchronized all the critical sections
within the code so that we as a
developer don't have to worry about the
thread interference
so if we're using a method that all
class that isn't thread-safe then the
developer hasn't added any
synchronization
in that case would be responsible for
adding synchronization if we want
multiple threads to be able to safely
use the code now in the javafx section
if you've already done that we learned
that would have to run all the code that
modifies a UI component on the javafx
runtime thread so now i can explain why
that is the case
none of the UI components are thread
safe in Java FX
so rather than forcing every developer
to properly synchronized any code that
modifies the UI
the javafx developers instead force all
such code to run on the javafx run time
thread since the only one thread
this is the javafx runtime thread can
modify UI components there won't  be
any thread interference
so one last thing to note before we move
on when we are synchronizing code we
should synchronize only the code that
must be synchronized so in our example
only the for loop has to be synchronized
so that's why we put that inside the
synchronized block
I demonstrated how to synchronize the do
count down method but doing it that way
would be synchronizing too much code
we also don't want to synchronize the
setting of the color variable because
frankly there's no reason to do so
we don't want threads to be suspended or
blocked unnecessarily because that can
affect the performance of an application
as well as the user experience
so in other words we really want to keep
the code we synchronized to an absolute
minimum
so at this point we've now talked about
and learned that we can prevent thread
interference or a race condition by
synchronizing critical sections of code
so let's go ahead now look at methods
that can only be called within
synchronized code namely the weight
notify and notify all methods
so the classic example that demonstrates
the use of these two methods is the
producer consumer example
so we're going to create a new console
project and go ahead and create that now
so i'm going to close this project down
I'm going to create a new project and
let's call it messages
messages and finish to create the
project
so what we're going to be doing here is
pretending that we're dealing with
reading and writing messages of some
sort
we're not going to use our thread color
class for this example we're going to
have two threads in our application one
that's going to produce messages and the
other one that is going to consume
messages
so first we'll add code for the message
class to the main java file
so let's add that class now....
we need a couple of fields so...
....
we want to set up a synchronized read
method so...
.....and for now we're just going to put...
.....and we are going to set....
....then we also
want to create a synchronized write method
so....
....
.....
so pretty straightforward the read
method will be used by the consumer to
read the message and the write method
will be used by the producer to write a
message
the empty variable will be true whenb there's
no message to read and we want the
consumer to read each message before we
write another one
so in the write method we're checking to
see if the message is empty
if it isn't we are going to loop until the
message is empty
when we exit the loop we'll set empty to
false and at that point we then write
the message now in the read method we're
going to loop until there is a message
to read
that's what the empty loop there is for then we'll set the flag to
true to indicate that we've read the
message and then we return the message
to the caller in this case the consumer
now I've synchronized the read and the
write methods because when a thread is
running one of these methods we don't
actually want another thread to be able
to run either method so we don't want
the reader thread to run while the writer thread is writing a message and vice
versa
so now that we've done that lets
create our writer class and that's the
class that will actually write the
messages so we'll go ahead and do that
....
we need a private message which is our
message object and then we need to
a constructor which is going to store
that message objects so...
with message being passed as an argument
to the constructor and then we'll save
it into our field...
....
ok so next we want to create our run
method so...
create a series of messages so we're
going to create the string array so...
....
ok so there's four messages that
ultimately we're going to write here
so then we want to create an instance of
the random class so that we can have
random delay
so....
and we're going to loop through for all
the messages even though we know theirs 4
will actually loop through based on the
length of the string array....
....
go through and do one at a time and then
we need to try block so....
....
....we need to catch the
interrupted exception which we've talked
about previously in this section and
we're not going to actually put any code
in there for now we'll do that if we
find that if their is some errors
then after the the for loop....
....
ok so that's our writer class
so the writer class or in this case
the producer class writes 4 messages
and to give the reader or in this case
the consumer a chance to run and to
simulate what would happen in a real
world application that it's going to
sleep for up to two seconds
....
so its going to sleep for up to two
seconds after writing a message and I
talked about using the random class to
generate that random delay
so now that we've done that the next
thing we want to do is add our reader
class and we'll do that in the next
video